# CS350-embedded-systems

In this project, I used Code Composer Studio to write a program in C for my Texas Instruments CC3220SF-LaunchXL microcontroller. The purpose of the project was to use timers and interrupts to create a state machine that would continuously flash the message ‘SOS’ in Morse Code until a button was pressed on the microcontroller, in which case the message would be changed to ‘OK’. The green LED was used to indicate dashes in the message, and the red LED was used to indicate dots. All of the code needed to run this project is in the repository, and I’ve included a diagram of the state machine as well. 

I think one thing that I did well in this project is minimize memory usage throughout the program. I tried to come up with an implementation that was as efficient as possible by designing a solution that minimized the number of variables used, used the smallest available variable type, and avoided overly complex state logic. There is a version of this project that could have used significantly more variables, for example by having a counter for each letter or a toggle that indicates the end of an individual letter or message. I tried to keep in mind that in an embedded system, potentially every byte counts. 

One tradeoff of this memory efficiency is that the program isn’t as flexible or reusable as it could have been. Some things, like the time gaps in between letters, are still hard coded, so changing some aspects of the project would not be as easy as it would be if memory wasn’t a constraining factor. But this is sort of a balancing act, and I tried to maximize the reusability of the project while still weighing other factors. I think that because of the way I structured my code, with states that correspond to individual letters, it actually wouldn’t be terribly difficult to change the messages displayed for a future project. I think this speaks to the effort I put in to make this code very readable and well-organized. Especially with the comments added in the state machine, the logic of this program is hopefully very easy to follow. Working with embedded systems was very new for me, so my goal was to make it easy for anyone else (or myself in the future) to jump into the codebase quickly. 

I gained a lot of new skills working on this project. I’ve worked with a lot of different programing languages, some of which are built on or inspired by C, but this was my first time ever coding in C directly. I think learning the constraints of a more rigid language like C has definitely helped me appreciate optimizations and best practices that I can take with me to more permissive languages, like Javascript. As I mentioned before, it was also my first time working with hardware components, so I gained a lot of great experience in the world of microcontrollers and embedded programming. Even some simple things like reading technical specs in the manual for the board and using a Code Composer Studio as a new IDE were really valuable for expanding my understanding and preparing me for future projects in this field.     
